There's one with a government job in aid, and
another one with an architect engineer firm out of
Houston. It would have been
engineering and construction side of aid to
foreign countries.
And sure enough, I ended up on the list being
promoted to colonel. And I went in and told Mr.
Turner that I was not going to be able to accept the
promotion of the Colonel, that I planned to
retire, and that I had told him about it, and that I
would get down. Well, that was worse than hitting a
beehive with a stick, because a hell of a lot of
effort had been put in
to make damn sure, I guess, that I'd been promoted.
You just don't go around and say, hey, we ought to
promote something. Sure. And so we didn't speak
for a couple of days. And then when we finally got
back to speaking, he said, now you've got to wait a
minute, boss. You told me I don't have to do
anything but pay taxes and die. I'm getting out. He
said, well, what would it take for you to stay in? I
said, well, you know, I'm a reserve officer. He
said, you either get that enigma off my back where
I'm an indefinite reserve and I can go as long as I
want to go, or I want to be in the record. Why aren't
you in the record now? I said, I've been selected
three times and each time they ruled me out because
of my eyes.
Okay. Two days later he came back and he said,
you're taking a physical out of Andrew? Yeah. He
said, well, they've marked that thing out. It no
longer says retirement fiscal. It says
appointment fiscal. You're going to be appointed
into the regular Air Force. I said, well, I'm
curious how that happened. He says, well, when
this thing came to the secretary, he didn't
hesitate to say, hell, I'll ask the Surgeon
General to waive his eyesight. And here's the
letter he sent the Surgeon General, and here's the
letter back from the Surgeon General. He says,
they waived your eyesight. He says, you're in the
regular. I said, OK. So they're in the regulars and
you're full colonel. Well, I could do the grade
full colonel because I accepted the promotion.
But because of a lot of personnel thing that would
take a long time to explain, my permit grade was
major. See? Well, ultimately it caught up, got up
the colonel. But because of a certain thing, my
permit grade was major. But that didn't hurt
because then I could retire on, what I was wearing
on my shoulders. Sure. Okay. Okay. The very next
thing that happens is, well, you know, the minute I
got you promoted, I knew I had to lose you, so you're
going to have to go overseas. I said, yep, I've
already got my orders. What do you mean you got your
orders? I said, well, I've got an alert. Where are
you going? I said, I'm going to Thailand. What the
hell are you going to do in Thailand? I said, I'm
going to be the number one engineer over there. He
said, I'm going to be responsible for all those
bases you and I have been visiting and worked with
the Navy whenever we have to have. Oh, you're not
going to do that. Does Goddard know about this?
Well, this was General Goddard, who then had
replaced Curtin as the top engineer in the Air
Force. By the way, General Goddard's picture
hangs on the wall over there at the former student.
But he is a He was a West Point graduate, got his
master's at A&M, but now he lives in North
Carolina. So you can't reach him. Yeah, but
anyway, this is the Goddard that had been in there a
couple of times. I worked for him at the Aviation
Engineer Force, went down to North Africa to work
for him, and now here Goddard is again. I said, no,
he doesn't know anything about it. He said, you get
me on the phone. Get him on the phone. So they got
together and said, you're not going to Thailand. I
said, well, where am I going? you know Project
Anglo House? I said, yeah. You mean building those
1,500 houses over in the United Kingdom? Yeah. He
said, you're going to the United Kingdom. I said,
who in the hell wants to go build 1,500 houses? You
do. Yes, sir. So off we go to England. This means the
third time that I've been stationed in England.
War, and then once before, and twice now that she
goes But we go to England. Well, wasn't that a more
desirable duty in England than Thailand? Well,
who knew how long the Vietnam-Thailand thing was
going on? Sure. And an old army general said, we
ain't got but one more, and everybody wants to get
in it.
Well, OK. Yeah, it was a good job. Got over there,
and we had these 1,500 houses that were to be built,
all of them to be individually owned by a British
entrepreneur, not owned by our own government,
which meant that they bought the land, they
designed the house, we approved the design, we
oversaw the construction, and then when the house
was finished, they owned it, but we guaranteed
occupancy for a five-year period. With American
military personnel? Yeah. Remember I said
earlier, we built 200 of them up in Scotland for the
Navy. to support the polarity. Then we also had an
intelligence project that was over the horizon
radar. It was built up on the coast and it was, we did
the facility work and RCA was at the same time we
were building, supposed to be trying to develop
the system that would be installed there, and it's
just what it says, over the horizon radar. Well,
how did that work? Well, it didn't. We finished the
facility, and we put in all the antenna, built all
the buildings, put in all the shielding. The thing
was actually constructed on ground elevation
zero, which meant that we had the elevate the
buildings. The roads were down on zero, but the
buildings were up on piling 16 feet above the
ground. But anyway, the RCA never got the system
perfected to go in there. And the facility is
standing right now just as a monument. You might
say it's stupidity, but it was a, what do you call,
you build while we're developing. It didn't seem
like a very good idea. It was a combination of
American and British funded. Our job was with the
British engineers and constructors to get it
built by a certain time date. And I got to- Where was
it built? I beg your pardon? Where was it and where
was it built? Okay, there are two bases right up on
the coast called Bentwater's Woodbridge. And if
you drew an angle, I mean, a line off of each one of
them about each flying ahead in the east a little
bit. It would cross at a place called Orford Ness.
And again, it's on the coast, zero elevation. It
was an old World War I bombing range. We had to go in
there and clear the mines and all the bombs out
before we could ever get started. I got a handpick
of a major that I made lieutenant colonel, and he
has retired as a colonel, too. oversee the thing,
and an outstanding job. But, well, my job didn't, I
went over on a three-year assignment, and I didn't
get to stay for two years. My boss, who was John
Bell, came back from a promotion board and called
me in one day and said, type your gear, you're
fired. I said, you've got to be kidding me. He said,
nope. You're leaving. Can you tell me where I'm
going? He said, yeah, you're going to Germany.
You're going to Wiesbach. Well, that was
headquartered in Air Force Europe, which was the
next headquarters higher. I said, OK. What am I
going to do over there? He said, you're going to be
the top engineer. I said, well, what's happened to
Jim? He said, Jim's already agreed to go. He's had
three chances to make general, and he hasn't made
it, so he's agreed to quit. Who is Jim? Jim Finlan,
Colonel Finlan, was sitting in the chair over
there. So he was the chief engineer over there?
Yeah. He went to Germany the same year I went to
England. We went over on the ship together, on the
United States, by the way. Jim had had one chance in
Pentagon, two chances in Germany, and wasn't
selected, so he said, I'll back out. So he was
resigning, or retiring? Yeah. And... So I went
over and I said, OK, I guess so. And he says, there's
no guessing about it. It's already set up. You're
going over. You're it. And so I just went over and
didn't do anything different. Just kept right on
working and doing whatever had to be done. So your
job in Germany was to be the engineer then. for the
entire Air Force of all of Europe. That must have
been a tremendous responsibility. See, he had
been there two years as a colonel and didn't make
general. So I went in there and it
was my intention to stay
until the tour was over and then come home and
retire. How long do you stay in the service? MR.
Sure. And we were relaxing one afternoon, getting
ready to go to a party that night, and General
Holzapfel, the four-star, called and he said – I
said, yes, sir. And he said, this is Randy. I said,
yes, sir. He said, in one hour, the President will
nominate this year's list of new Brigadier
General to the Senate, and I want to let you know
that you're on that list. What did you feel like?
And I had been going retirement homes, and I just
threw them up in the air. And she looked at me, and
she said, are you on the General's
list? I said, yeah. She said, what do you think? I
said, oh, it'll be worse than ever now. Because it
is, and I knew it was.
The colonel has a lot of power. The general has
absolutely none. Why do you say that? Well, you go
where they tell you to go. You say what they tell you
to say. You do what they tell you to do. And
you just got a little more limitation the type of
conduct or what and
i'm sure you've heard the phrase and it's true it's
lonesome
it really is why
subordinates don't come up and socially social
you know associated
you make your own social life You either go out and
socialize with other general officers, and hell,
there may not be any others. Or you reach down and
try to pick a few colonels, and they may not want to
socialize
with you. It's a different life altogether when
you cross that line. Altogether.
A colonel can be given a job that no matter what you
think about it, he can say, you know, that thing
could be, a major could do that job. And we realize,
colonel, but we want you to do it, you know. You've
got the qualifications. We've got to get this job
done. Or he can sit in this job that the table of
organization calls for a brigadier general. But
he's still a colonel. You know, and he's looked at.
He's a colonel. You cross that damn line,
everybody's
You're under scrutiny.
And you've also got one other thing. When the next
list comes along, you know, the next promotion
list, the pressure is on for you to get out. Because
they can't promote that guy that's on this list
until you make a vacancy. So of all the existing
generals, after they get 60 up down here waiting,
the pressure is on. We've got to get these guys
promoted before the end of the year so we can put
another 60 on the list. So the pressure is on. You
think about retiring? Every once in a while
they're like, hey, you think about retiring?
That's what people would say to you? Oh, sure. What
type of people? I mean, personnel people.
Personnel people. But anyway. Well, what did you
answer when they asked you? Are you thinking about
retiring? No, not yet. Not yet. Not for a while.
Now, like I said, they come out with this list, and
the Senate approves it, and then as the vacancy
comes, you step up. Certainly. So here it was in
Christmas, the list came out, and I went to New
Year's Day, not the next year, but one whole year
before I ever got off the list and changed Eagle to a
star. One year. Waiting for a job. That's right.
No, not for a job. Just an opening. I had a job. I
stayed there. So you were waiting for somebody
else to retire. That's right. I stayed there. When
I left, still didn't have an opening. Went to the
log command in Ohio, and I was there six months
before an opening came. They gave me the
promotion. That's true all over the Air Force.
Now, the Army and the Navy, they don't do it that
way, but the Air Force. Well, how do they do it now? I
don't know. I don't know. I don't know when they
make the decision, but there's a term called
frocking. They let a guy change the insignia on his
shoulder, but he doesn't get paid until the
vacancy occurs because Congress is limited
because of appropriation. But a guy may be wearing
something in the Army and the Navy, but he's still
being paid something different. Every once in a
while the Air Force will truck somebody,
especially if they're going to go overseas and
work for the foreign government. And if he's on a
promotion list, they'll let him go ahead and
change his signal. But if he's working with his own
people, they don't truck him.
Never got into wire. what the reasoning is,
whether good or bad or whatever. It sounds to me
then that you went from being promoted to a full
colonel to a brigadier general in just two years.
Yep, that's about right. Well, that's
extraordinarily fast. How can you count for that?
I had people that believed in me. I had people that
were, you know, you'd call them They were my
sponsor.
The one, I guess, that bleed in me the most was Mr.
Turner.
The vice commander of Air Force Europe was a
three-star gentleman by the name of George
Simler, who is deceased.
General Bell, the commander of the 3rd Air Force,
that I was working for there in England, was quite
impressed with what we were doing and what I was
able to get done working through and with the
British.
And then General Goddard, who was the director of
civil engineering, the top engineer in the Air
Force, who I had worked for at the Aviation
Engineering Force, quite
aware of what I could do and so on and I guess I have to
say those poor gentlemen were probably
responsible for seeing that General Holden was
convinced that I would be promoted and of course by
him recommending
if he hadn't recommended me I would never have made
it because any Air Force All the recommendations
come in from the commanders of what we call the
major commands. They
all come to a very big pool. And then a group of
general officers review these people. And they
reduce the total that had come in down to some
agreed upon figure, like three for every one to be
selected. Remember I said my General Bell had come
back from a promotion board. He sat on that board
the year before I made it. That's the reason he knew
the other guy hadn't made it and wasn't going to
make it because he didn't even get by that board.
From here, whatever it's agreed upon that year, it
may be, okay, we're going to promote 60, put 180 to
the last board. Or it may be put 120 to the last
board. It reduces the amount of effort to the last
board. So you've got to get out of command, you've
got to get past this board, and then you've got to be
selected by that last one. And the last one is a
bunch of four stars that are sitting
there. You all but say, how in the hell? How did I do
it? I'm not told. Anybody ask me, what do you think?
I'm one grade higher than I ever expected to be. If
I'd have done it, don't ask me how I did
it. And yet, that's what I tell them publicly or
what. Whenever my subordinates would come to me,
my military supporters, not civilians, come to me
and say, I've got to make out my career sheet. The
Air Force has got a personnel thing to keep having
here. Junior year officers make out. What do you
want to do next? When do you want to go to school and
so on? Service is one. When you leave here and I
leave here, I thought maybe I'd like to do showing
something. Sounds pretty good. That's something
you haven't done and you want to experience. Then I
thought I'll go to school. What kind of? Oh,
squadron officers. What do you want to go there
for? Well, I ought to get it on my records that I've
been to school. After that, the school would show
up again. I said, where are you going to get all
those school spots? You've got to get them on your
record. I said, well, maybe. I said, you know, the
pendulum swings back and forth, and you've got to
watch that pendulum. If you've got a whole bunch of
people in personnel or at the top that are saying,
go to school, go to school, and by all means, get
school on your record. Remember, you can take it
back to our spotters. And
I can remember one of these guys thinking, he said,
General, what schools have you been
to? I said, I went to Adjutant General School six
weeks. I went to Academic Instructor School six
weeks. I went to a school to learn how to be an
Inspector General two weeks. I went to the Atomic
Defense Construction Course for maybe two weeks.
I said, I've been to four schools.
What do you do the other time? Work. I said, and I
work for other people, not for other Air Force
engineers if I cannot help it. I work for civilians
that have gotten power. I work for other branches
of the service. Work for the Army. Work with the
Navy. Somebody else is writing that ticket. And
try to be sure that it's not somebody that you're
competing with that's writing your ticket.
Somebody that's not going to say, boy, if I build
him up too great, he's going to pass me in. I never
thought about that. But work, production is the
key. We're not in this service to go to school.
We're not in this service to do anything but
remember. The Air Force mission is to fly and to
fight, and it's up to you as an engineer to keep the
facilities available so that they can fly and
fight.
Not go to school. Well, you have to admit that your
career was rather unusual. I've interviewed a
number of generals, and they have command schools
and more colleges on their record. Most of them say
in Stanley that they were very valuable
experiences. That's right. You see, down the
line, you're going to get me back under another
civilian. I have worked under two GS-18s. And I'll
bet you that you can find very, very few that ever
worked for civilians. Most of the time they've
been working for other military. But I worked for
two civilians, and I convinced one of them I could
produce, and that was Turner's. I know that Turner
got me promoted to colonel, and I know damn good and
well he was partially responsible for getting me
promoted
to colonel. So your years in the Pentagon were
really the key then? Sure. Just think, I could have
gone to ROTC for the second time. Yeah. And then you
would have retired as lieutenant colonel
probably. That's right. Yep. Well, let's talk
about Germany here, 1970-1971. This is a
tremendous responsibility as the chief engineer
for the Air Force in Europe. Did you have any major
problems? Problems? No. Challenges? Sure. What
were some of the challenges? Well, we
had our fighters dispersed, of course, on base. We
were now putting them in hardened shelters. And
again, under the concurrency concept, we were
putting them in hardened shelters, but the
shelters didn't have any doors on them. And so
while we were erecting and building the shelters
on the continent, they were testing the different
proposed doors back here in the United States.
They finally approved the design of one. And the
company that won the contract was a company by the
name of Marway Steel. And they established a plant
in Luxembourg, which was just across the border
from here. And they manufactured and fabricated
the doors and then brought them up and installed
them and so on. And these shelters were designed to
withstand like a nuclear blast? Well, not a direct
nuke. No, of course not. But they were principally
designed against just a high explosion.
When you start designing against nuclear, you're
just making it too costly to protect one bird, one
aircraft. These were above ground. Oh yeah, above
ground. And armor plated doors.
They, well, you just don't go through something of
that magnitude without having different
challenges. What else besides, did you finish
those? Oh yeah, we finished them. So now we have
these shelters at every air base? In Germany. Oh,
in Germany? Yeah, not in England. Okay. Then we
were bringing the F-111 in to England. And, of
course, we had been working on that while I was over
there in England. And, of course, it wasn't yet
completed. That's the one place that we did have
to... come up with new stories because what we had
had in there before then was reconnaissance type
aircraft, not bombers. So we had the new problems
there. How did you resolve those? Well, just lots
of meetings with British people and British
agencies and so on. Were the British still
sympathetic to having nuclear warheads? The
government was. Of course, some of the people in
the countryside. That's good old farmland that
you're taking away from us. Let's see, the heart
shelters,
The chief staff of the Air Force in Washington,
General Ryan,
I had briefed General Ryan a number of times. In
fact, I had briefed him on the F-111 move and so on.
And General Ryan lives here in San Antonio now. But
he issued a policy that said, I want all
headquarters moved to an air base, an air force
base. An air force base, by definition, means
you've got a runway. I don't want anything,
industrial complex or something like that, move
everything. He said, I want my people to be able to
smell jet fuel. How are you going to think? flying,
unless you see flying, unless you hear flying, and
that was
it. When I got to Wiesbaden, Germany, General
Holzapfel called me in. He says,
General Ryan says we're going to move to Ramstein.
I said, all right. I said, I'll get down there and
check the facilities out and so on. He said, wait a
minute, wait a minute. More than that, I said,
what's that? And he says, normally a move like this
would be planned and written by ops plans or a
planning program, somebody like that. He said,
they've been fiddling around with this thing for
over a year. They're finding a thousand reasons
why this headquarters can't be moved to Ramstein.
Yes, I could hear it coming. He says, you will write
the plan to move this headquarters to Ramstein.
Well, that's not really an engineer's job. Our job
is to support it, to determine what facilities are
needed, crank it into the plan, and everything. He
says, don't come back and tell me why we can't go.
Come back to the plan that says how we will go. He
says, now, I realize I realize you're just a
colonel. You're going to knock heads with a
two-star general over there, and you're going to
knock heads with a one-star general over there.
But you just stay with it. I will announce the
assignment tomorrow morning at the staff
meeting, and I'll expect your full cooperation.
We wrote the plan. Headquarters is now in
Ramstein. And it moved. Did you have problems with
your one- and two-star generals? Not when he says
they're writing a plan. It's not why we can't move.
It's how we're going to move. That was it. But I
didn't know that they'd been messing around with
it for a year and a half. Sure, over in England, we
keep hearing, hey, the headquarter's got to move
the ramps. Never happened. Never happened. Sure
enough, he never came up with a plan. He just come up
with a plan. He just gave you the responsibility.
Yeah, that was it. Of course I had to find me some
people in my own staff that could work on such a
plant because that's not our daily work. But we did
it and he
moved. We had a real good guy that wasn't there very
long and that was Jay Robin. He was I guess I don't
guess we even overlapped. He was in there, and
somebody had taken his job by the time I got there.
But I
mentioned this at breakfast this morning to
another retired Air Force general about your
experience with Jay and spending two days with
him. And he said, why didn't you tell him to spend 30
years with him like we did? He used to be the
inspector general. That's a hell of a time.
Another interesting thing, following the war,
they established an organization of civilians
called
the General Service Unit. And it was made up of
Germans, Turks, Italians,
few Spanish, and it had one Air Force officer
as its advisor.
The whole thing was set up on a military
organization, but they were all civilians, and
they were all from the different nationalities
that were just wandering around Europe trying to
find a place, abbreviated the GSU.
That unit did various jobs of construction. Most
of the design we did in our own staff, then gave them
the job. Anywhere we told them to go. Put them on a
job in Turkey, lay a pipeline across the river,
something like that. And they did jobs that had to
be done in a hurry, that we couldn't take the time to
go out to bid for, or it may be a job just to keep them
occupied in order to keep the unit in being. And it
was located at one of the bases, and I had a captain
that was, believe it or not, a captain, not very
much, but he was part of it. Most of the captains we
put there were sharp guys, and they were their
advisors. And any time they have a problem with our
staff back at the headquarters, we'll lose up to
the captain to wade in and help get the problem
solved. But we use that unit all over Europe and
into Turkey.
It wasn't a case of election when one of their
People that might say it was an officer level
either left or died or retired or something like
that. And the captain would come back to the boss,
whoever's sitting in my chair, and say, OK, now
we've got to decide who we're going to promote up.
And they were organized along the military line,
even though they were civilians. They had their
own camp, their own dining halls, everything. The
Air Force now has a number of units that were copied
from that organization, but they are military
organizations.
Why'd you only stay at this job for one year, 1970
and 1971? When
you are a Brigadier General, or any kind of gun in
the airport. When the chief of staff tells you to go
over there and do that job, you say, yes, sir, or
else you say, here's my badge. The General
Holzapfel left as commander of USAID, of Air Force
Europe. And General Jones, who is now the chairman
of the Joint Chief, commander of USAFD. And he had a
protege by the name of Bob Thompson that had been
his engineer when he was a SAC commander at the base
over in Louisiana. And he wanted Thompson to be his
engineer. And it was as simple as that. He just
tells the person, tells the general assignment
officer, I want Thompson to come in. Now it's up to
the general assignment to start, OK, what happens
now? So this, remember I used the name McGarvey,
was the engineer in
the air staff when we were building Tuiwa. He got
promoted from colonel to general. OK, he's now
sitting out it. Air Force Logistics Command at
Wright-Patterson, and he's been out there for a
number of years, and it's about time that he would
have an overseas assignment. So they picked
McGarvey up, sent him overseas, and okay, you go in
and take McGarvey's place at Wright-Patterson.
Did you get an opportunity to meet General Jones?
General Jones? Oh, yeah. What was your
impressions of him? Oh...
I never...
I never really tried to draw
to develop an analysis and say, what kind of guy we
got here.
When I knew him, he was in a very, very difficult
position to
say, this is the real guy. Because he was sitting as
General Holzapfel's deputy. wearing three
stars, but he knew that he was going to be the
commander in just one, two, or three months. And
that's a real bad time because, man, you're trying
already to get things straightened out, to run the
way you want them, you're trying to get your staff,
you know, like General Goddard and I were in there
in his office. General Goddard, again, is out of
Washington. He came over and paid a visit. Out of
courtesy, he said, well, I better go see Joan. When
we walked out, Joan says, hey, guy, Goddard. He
says, get Bob Thompson over here to be Hub's
deputy, because when Hub leaves, I want him to be my
engineer. So two steps out in the hall, I turned to
Goddard, and I said, where am I going? He said,
that's the first I heard, that you're going. Four
stars have got that much power. And they should
have. How did that make you feel, though? I went to
Texas A&M. I've been exposed to a lot of things. I
just turned to the director of engineering and,
well, it looks like I'm going. Where am I going?
Because I knew I'd already been to the charm
schools. They went here on that promotion list.
Immediately, boy, they bring all the new
Selectees in, and we go through what's called a
charm school for a whole week in Washington. Tell
me about that. Oh, yeah. We're lectured to. Is this
in all services? No, this is Air Force. OK. But we
are lectured to by the chief of staff of all of the
services, the commandant of the Marines, the
chief of staff of the Army. Westmoreland talked to
us. He talked to us and used every bit of his time and
left no time for questions. We knew what was
happening. Hell, we were loaded for it. Ran out of
time. But anyway, all of the chiefs talked to us,
and then we get certain rules that are laid down to
us, you know, verbally, and then we get certain
advice. Well, what kind of things do they tell you
for this week? All colonels designate generals.
That's right. Okay, and what do they tell you?
What's expected of you as a general officer is what
I was addressing a while ago. Instead of, you're no
longer a colonel, you're a general officer.
You've got more eyes watching you now than ever
have watched you before. What you do in the public
will be known, if it's wrong tomorrow, all over the
world. Well, you can say these things in a hurry,
but they're told to you from time to time as you're
there and they talk about public relations. What
other topics besides public relations? Probably
getting along with Congress and stuff like that.
Oh, yeah. The director of legislative liaison
comes in and says, now, I know that some of you have
never been on the Hill. Some of you have probably
had more time on the Hill than I have. And lay it out.
Then you will have a protocol-type dinner or lunch
in which OK, now, let's go through some protocol.
And it's just a wrap-up of everything you ought to
know before you get out there and stump your toes.
Sure. And then, of course, there's always the guy
that's one of the top generals that has got a pretty
good story about the, OK, now I'm going to give you
some rules that you won't find anywhere.
Don't let the bastards wear you down.
Don't get between the dog and the lamppost.
Explain what he's talking about. Damn easy now
that you're a general to get caught between these.
Just don't get in there. Watch.
It's an interesting theory.
But anyway, we stepped out of the into the hall and I
turned to this Goddard and I said, where am I going?
He said, I don't know, but you're going. I said,
well, as soon as you got an idea, let me know. Well,
it's about to be a good one. It'll be one of the major
commands. OK. So off to log command at Wright Pack.
And of course, the minute I get to log command, This
four-star General Merrill that I had dealt with up
in Hartford, Connecticut on the museum, he's
still the commander. So I know the man. I don't have
to go into a new man and say, hey, if you haven't
heard of me, I've heard of you. It's just, hey,
welcome aboard. There's your desk. Go. So you were
the Logistics Command, 1971 to 72.
The museum's already built up there. What other
things are you working on? Okay. The logistics
command, just briefly, in the Air Force, is
responsible for all the supply and the
refurbishment and modification of all the
aircraft. And it has four huge depots. One at
McClellan in California, one at Ogden, Utah, One
at Oklahoma City, one here at San Antonio, one at
Warner Robins. And any one of those five plants'
facility is valued more than any one of the other
installations in the airport, even more than the
SAC places. Why? Because of their shops, their
sizes of their warehouses, the automation. I'm
not talking about the aircraft, I'm talking about
the physical land. On top of that we've got our log
command has four or five other smaller places that
deal strictly in patrol with them or something
like that. But these places are absolutely huge.
All of them have the runways that are equal to the
SAC bases because Here at Kelly, the C-5 comes in
and the B-52s come in. They work on the B-52s here at
Kelly in San Antonio. And each of the aircraft
systems are assigned to one of these depots. They
don't work on the F-111 at all. Five of them. They
only work on the F-111 at one place. They only work
on the C-5 here at Kelly. And so on. So this is the...
And we were going through... An update and
modification of facilities is not something that
I started, but this general ahead of me, McGarvey,
had started it, and it was a lap over. I inherited it
and kept going on the time phasing that had been
established to program and go to the Air Force and
get it into the program before the Congress. get
the authorization and appropriations to upgrade
some of our ancient facilities. Because all these
bases, if you knew them, are some of the oldest
bases that are in the Air Force Headquarters. So
you were making improvements? Well, what we call
upgrades, yeah. That's a principle thing. Got
there just in time for the opening of the Air Force
Museum, by the way. Oh, great. Yeah. And the
president was there to open it.
And that was amazing because we had to establish a
little cosmetic booth just inside the door so that
when he got off the airplane and got in the car, when
he hit the news end, he went in the booth so they
could, you know, fix him all up, cosmetic wires,
hit television. I thought Reagan was the only one
that did that. Excellent. Did that quite a bit.
This was excellent. I'm kidding. That is
fantastic. So every time Mr. Nixon went to a new
area, he'd have a little... Every time Mr. Nixon
went to...